---
layout: post
title: Welcome to my Website
description: Welcome to my GitHub website. In this post, I will introduce myself and talk about my goals for this site.
disqus_identifier: 2012-05-17-welcome
---
Welcome to my GitHub Pages website, or at least to the re-launch of the website.
I started this website a couple of months ago with the best of intentions, but life
caught up with me and I've been slaving away on other projects. I finally made time
to come back and dedicate to posting source code on this website. I decided to start
with rebuilding the website with a new and updated structure.

First, if you are new to GitHub Pages and want a site of your own, definitely check
out the [GitHub Pages website](http://pages.github.com). GitHub Pages is a wonderful
tool and I thank GitHub for coming up with this idea. Blog management through Git is
a wonderfully simple way to build up a personal blog or website. Feel free to look
at the source for my site (https://github.com/mfcollins3.github.com) to see how I am
building and managing my website.

if you do not know me, welcome! My name is Michael Collins. I am currently working
for Neudesic as a product architect. For the past six years, I have been working as
a consultant in the Phoenix metropolitan area. Prior to that, I spent twelve years
of my career doing product development. As of November, 2011, I joined Neudesic's
relatively new product team and I am leading the development of Neudesic's Neuron
Enterprise Service Bus product.

I have been developing software professionally as a career for almost 18 years. I
began my career while attending Calfornia State University in Sacrament where I
studied Computer Engineering and Computer Science. After leaving the univeristy,
I relocated to the San Francisco Bay Area where I worked for companies such as
PeopleSoft and Kaiser Foundation Health Plan.

In April, 2003, I relocated from the Bay Area to Scottsdale, Arizona, to work for
JDA Software. I currently live in Surprise, Arizona, with my wife, one-year-old son,
and three dogs.

Software development is both a career and a hobby for me, and I hope that you will
see that on this website. I love building software solutions for customers, but I
also like learning about new technologies and building software applications for
my personal use.

For several years, I have been dreaming of the day when I will open up my own
company and develop my own software products. The name of my company is
ImaginaryRealities, LLC, and hopefully you will see quite a lot of information
about that company here on this website as I talk about the products that I am
working to build in my spare time.

I hope that you find some value from this website. Welcome to the re-launch!